The Tipoff to a Meaningful Relationship

In the 1967 men’s basketball title game, Dan Obrovac of Dayton won the opening tip from Kareem Abdul-Jabbar of U.C.L.A. Cancer brought the men together again decades later.

A miniature model of Dayton’s playing court was wedged into its branches.

One of the tree’s ornaments represents a link between the current Flyers men’s basketball team, which was 29-2 and angling for a No. 1 seed before the N.C.A.A. tournament was canceled, and the celebrated Flyers team that reached the 1967 championship game against U.C.L.A.

The ornament contains a photograph of Dan Obrovac, a 6-foot-10 Dayton center, outjumping the 7-foot-2 Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, then known as Lew Alcindor, on the opening tipoff. And it hints at a brief but poignant relationship that developed when both men learned they had cancer about a decade ago.

Rosie Miller, a former companion of Obrovac, who died in 2010 at age 62, put the tree up in November. And it remained up on Friday, hours after she arrived home from Brooklyn, where the Atlantic 10 Conference tournament was going to be played before college basketball’s postseason was canceled because of the coronavirus outbreak.

“I’m superdepressed,” Miller, 72, a neighborhood preservationist, said Friday morning. “I live for March Madness. It’s like my Christmas.”

She put a message on her Facebook page: “One shining moment for Dan Obrovac. Who knows what shining moment might have been in store for our Flyers this year.”

After the opening tip, which Obrovac won, the 1967 championship game went badly for Dayton. Abdul-Jabbar dominated, and U.C.L.A. won the first of seven consecutive national titles. Obrovac played a modest five minutes. Still, that triumphant tipoff remains the most famous photograph in Dayton basketball history. And for a certain generation of Flyers fans, it persists as the archetypal play of underdog hustle.

For years, a huge photograph of Obrovac outleaping Abdul-Jabbar and tipping it to a teammate occupied a prominent place in the concourse at University of Dayton Arena. The photograph has been reproduced as a stained glass mural that hangs in the university library.

As the men aged, their athletic connection became a more heartfelt association. And two acts of generosity by Abdul-Jabbar endeared him to the Dayton basketball community and challenged the outdated perception of him as a distant athlete, writer and filmmaker.

Shortly after the 1967 title game, he assisted a shaken Dayton cheerleader at the hotel where the Final Four teams and entourages stayed in Louisville, Ky. And in 2009, when both men were in poor health, Abdul-Jabbar sent touching notes to Obrovac, who had cancer of the esophagus, stomach and brain.

“It says he’s got a big heart and empathy; he’s a good man,” Don Donoher, 88, the Hall of Fame coach who led Dayton to the 1967 title game, said of Abdul-Jabbar.

After leaving Kobe Bryant’s memorial in Los Angeles last month, Abdul-Jabbar, who will turn 73 in April, spoke briefly by phone about reaching out to his Dayton counterpart.

“I wanted to show some appreciation for somebody I had a history with,” he said.

In 1967, the national semifinals and final were played on consecutive days. Dayton had little time to prepare for undefeated U.C.L.A. after a semifinal victory over North Carolina. The Flyers used tennis rackets at a short practice to mimic Abdul-Jabbar’s height and reach.

The championship game tipped off at Freedom Hall in Louisville. After Obrovac beat Abdul-Jabbar to the jump ball, the Flyers were quickly grounded. Abdul-Jabbar collected 20 points, 18 rebounds and 3 assists, giving U.C.L.A. a late 26-point lead before heading to the bench in an eventual 79-64 victory.

“It was a proud moment for Dan, the signature play of his career,” said Ned Sharpenter, 72, a reserve Dayton center on the 1967 team. “I wish we had a few other proud moments that day.”

chaina is the place for coronavirus.
