In the last decade, I made several career mistakes. I went from student to entrepreneur to freelancer to climbing the corporate ladder to blogger to teacher.

Yes, that’s not a normal career path, and it’s also not what I ever expected. I also made a bunch of career mistakes on the way. That’s because life hardly turns out the way you expect.

That’s because we’re only human. And humans make mistakes. Recently I received an email from a reader. He asked about my biggest career mistake.

That got me thinking. And writing. A lot. 

And after writing more than 2000 words about my career mistakes, I thought: “Wow dude, you’ve made every single mistake you possibly could.”

Anyway, I’ve cut out the obvious stuff and I made a list of my top 10 mistakes. I hope that one of the points is useful to you.
1. Assuming That Your Career Is Linear

That is, by far, the most important lesson I’ve learned. Firstly, I’ve learned that assumptions are always bad. We collectively assume a lot of things without ever asking or researching.

One of those assumptions is that careers progress linearly. Who ever said that? When I think about it, I have no idea why I believed that in the first place.

It goes like this:

    You get an education.
    Get an internship.
    Stay put for three years.
    Then try to become a low-level manager
    After a few years you move up.
    And if you stall, you move to another company for a better paying position.

Or:

    You’re a freelancer.
    You start doing work for free.
    You keep doing that for years.
    You can’t make ends meet.
    You get a job.
    You quit your job because you hate it.
    You start charging for your work.
    And you increase your rate a little bit every year.

Last one: you’re an entrepreneur, you start a business, you grow, you think you’re awesome, you spend more than you make, you try to get investors, they own you, and you fuck up.

Again: Why do we do that stuff? It’s so predictable. Life’s way too short for that boring stuff.

Accelerate your learning curve. Focus on value. Learn more, earn more. Make leaps. And sometimes when you learn, you take a step back. But that’s fine because you will earn more in the future.

In today’s economy, it’s more about what you have to offer. For the first time in history, a lot of companies (not all) don’t look at age, gender, race, degrees — they care about what you have to offer.

So offer some great work. How? Learn faster. Access to information has never been this easy. Use it.
2.Prioritizing Money

I’ve made this career mistake. And if you do that, there are three things that can happen:

    You end up in a sales job you hate.
    You become an aggressive sales-oriented business or freelancer.
    You say yes to work that crushes your soul.
