Have you ever thought about how long your career actually lasts? If you ask me, your career ends when your life ends.

Our work plays such a big role in the quality of our lives that I’m surprised why people stay in jobs that they hate.

I understand that sometimes you feel like you don’t have a choice. Maybe your parents want you to become a doctor. Or maybe you feel the pressure of social media to make money so you can have the life of famous people.

Whatever the reason is, many of us only work because we need the money. If you ask me, that’s a sad way to live.

Several years ago, I was no different. I thought a career was about status. I wanted to have a job that made me look good. But when my grandmother passed away, I started thinking about what I was doing.

I didn’t like my job, felt drained, stretched too thin, and couldn’t wait until it was Friday afternoon. And you know what the saddest part was? In the weekends, I was only recovering so I could repeat the cycle.

Does that sound familiar? If so, you’re not alone. Millions of people live that way. I don’t think it’s anyone’s fault. I think we, as a society, have failed to educate people on the meaning of work.

I don’t think that work should be this negative thing that people resent. “Ugh! It’s Monday morning. I have to go to work.”

Neither is work a way to earn money or respect; if you think it is, people have failed you.

No, work is a choice. You don’t do it because you have to, you do it because you want to make a contribution to your community. That’s what work is. But here’s the challenge:
In today’s world, you can have almost every career.

That’s not an opportunity. It’s a problem.

Because all entry barriers have been removed, you are faced with a lot more competition. Until a decade ago, you couldn’t simply enter any industry you wanted. You needed to be at the right place, at the right time, and you needed to meet the right people.

But now, you can almost be anything or do anything to make a living. That’s why your career success depends on making the right decisions early on. You want to pick a career that gives you a good outlook.

The last thing you want to become is an unfulfilled career hopper. A person who likes everything and picks a different career every two years. Changing careers is great. But it’s also great to persevere and make an impact. You can’t do that in a few years.

I’ve been blogging since 2015 and I’m not even close to what I’m trying to accomplish. It takes time to learn skills, build a network, and provide value. That’s why you want to make a smart decision about what kind of career you pursue.
“How do I know what my dream career is?”

I’ve personally used the advice from the renowned management consultant, Peter Drucker, to create a career that’s fulfilling. I can honestly look myself in the mirror and say that I wake up excited in the morning to get to work.

In Managing Oneself, a booklet that I read every year, Drucker shares several questions that every professional should ask themselves.

I’ve picked my 3 favorite ones. Answering these questions have helped me to create my dream career. Here they are (I also published a podcast episode on this topic if you prefer to listen).
