People who claim that setting goals are a bad thing are out of their minds. They probably set some goals in the past, failed, and never set a goal again.

I know there’s a lot of confusion about goals and systems these days. I’ve contributed to the confusion as well.

A lot of us share the idea that you either have a system or set goals.

But thinking “this or that” is not helpful because it limits our beliefs. I know this because I used to think that way too. But then, I learned that many things in life could be this and that.

So in this article, I’ll explain why goals and systems complement each other, and why I have both.

But first, let’s start with the definitions.

    A goal tells you where you’re going tomorrow
    A system tells you what to do today

Makes sense? There is a clear difference. A system is a collection of tasks and strategies that help you to function. And setting goals can be part of that system.
1. Why you need goals

Every time I read about people who claim you shouldn’t set goals, I get upset. It’s possibly the worst advice one could receive.

When someone is telling you not to set goals, they are essentially saying you should stop moving forward.

Goals are inherent to human nature. We thrive on progress. We need something to strive for. If we don’t have a vision of what our future could look like, why would we do anything at all?

It’s the classic question that philosophers and scientists have examined since the start of modern civilization. Over and over again, we’ve learned that we need goals to grow.

Let’s stop and think about that for a second. Why are we alive? I say we’re here to live a useful life. That’s what makes us happy; as a result, it makes our life good.

However, setting goals is not an easy skill. In the past, I would set goals that I had zero control over.

“I want to make a million bucks,” you might think.

Alright, great. But here’s the thing, you don’t control the rewards you get. What do you control? Your effort. So, it’s better to set goals that are related to your effort.

    How many books are you going to read?
    What degrees will you get?
    How many potential mentors will you reach out to?
    How many articles/books/videos/songs will you create?
    How much of your money are you going to invest?

You see, these types of questions are related to goals that you can influence. That’s the way to go.
2. Why you need systems

Systems have different meanings to people. For example, Scott Adams, the author of How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big, did a great job explaining how systems work for him. He doesn’t set goals and only has systems. That’s not how I look at it.

Once we set goals, we know that we have to put in the work to achieve them. That’s when systems come into play.

It comes down to this: What do I need to do EVERY DAY to achieve the goals I desire?

Let’s say you want to become financially independent by age 50. You might think:

    I need to save at least 30% of my income
    I need to increase my income yearly
    I need to be mentally strong so that I can do my job
    I need to be in good shape, so I don’t get ill and have high energy
    I need to learn every day, so I get better at my job
    I need to look at my goals every day to remind myself of where I’m going
    I need to reflect on the past to learn and be grateful for where I am
