Before there were books, universities, or classes, there were mentorships to pass on wisdom and knowledge. In the west, mentorships exist since the Ancient Greek times—it’s a tried method of learning. That’s why a lot of people try to find a mentor.

Sometimes people mix up apprenticeships and mentorships. An apprenticeship is basically an internship, which is a system that was created in the Middle Ages.

If you wanted to become a tailor, baker, or merchant, you became an apprentice first and learned the craft on the job.

The main difference between the two is that mentorships are informal. And that’s exactly what makes it difficult to find a mentor.

Most people understand the value of mentors, but finding one is not easy. I also didn’t have mentors until I was out of college.

But in the past six years, I’ve been lucky to cross paths with three great people, who became mentors to me, and taught me invaluable lessons.

There are also several other people that I speak to every once in a while — we exchange ideas, and share knowledge—they are also like mentors. So mentors come in many types of relationships.

Here are seven things I learned about finding a mentor.
1. Become A Learning Machine

Before you start thinking about finding a mentor, you want to think about two things:

    What’s your field?
    What can you bring to the table?

It’s astonishing to me that people want to find a mentor without any sense of direction. For example: If you want to work in sports, it doesn’t make sense to find a mentor who’s in art (unless you want to bring art to sports).

If you’re looking for someone who grabs you by the hand and tells you about life, you don’t need a mentor — you need experience.

And you only get experience by doing things. You can’t expect that people hand you everything — that’s not what a mentor does.

First, decide what industry you want to work in. Second, study that industry. Before you find real-life mentors, your mentors are books, degrees, courses,YouTube videos, or any other source of knowledge.

You need basic knowledge of life and your field if you want to find a mentor. No one’s waiting for a puppy that they have to raise.

It’s important to bring something to the table before you approach potential mentors.
2. Work On Your Emotional Intelligence

Because of the informal nature of mentorships, you need emotional intelligence if you want to find a mentor.

Emotional intelligence can be defined in many ways, and my definition is this: Don’t be annoying.

If you have found a mentor, you will spend time with her — and because it’s informal, it all comes down to likeability.

Likeability is also something that some companies stress during interviews. Because they know they will spend a lot of time with people who join their company, they ask themselves a version of this question: “Would I hang out with this person?”

If you don’t want to be annoying, here are some tips:

    Don’t try to be someone you are not
    Don’t think you know it all
    Be honest and humble
    Don’t try too hard
    Tell stories

Basically, do whatever Dale Carnegie writes in How To Win Friends And Influence People.
