I’m not hungry for money. Compared to several years ago, when I had less money, I still have the same life. It’s a rich life.

I wake up, drink my freshly brewed coffee, read a good book, and then start working until about 3 or 4 in the afternoon. Then, I put on my shorts and t-shirt and start working out.

Sometimes I listen to music during my workouts, and sometimes I don’t. After working out, I have dinner with my family. We watch a TV show or movie after we eat. And then, I get back to working or reading.

You see, it doesn’t take much money to live a good life. Benjamin Graham, one of the most respected investors of all time, once told his apprentice:

    “Money isn’t making that much difference in how you and I live. We’re both going down to the cafeteria for lunch and working every day and having a good time. So don’t worry about money, because it won’t make much difference in how you live.”

Of course, his apprentice was Warren Buffett, who’s one of the wealthiest people of all time. And after reading his biography, Snowball by Alice Schroeder, I’m pretty sure he’s also one of the most frugal people of all time as well.

The man was notorious for his spending pattern. That is, he didn’t spend money at all!

But if we look at Buffett’s strategy, we must admit that it works.

Enjoy your simple life, save your money, invest it wisely, and don’t lose your money. That’s how you get richer every day.

In the rest of this article, I explain how I apply this strategy in daily life.
1. Live Lean

I keep my expenses as low as possible without sacrificing the quality of life. My apartment isn’t big, my mortgage is low and so are my energy and water costs. I drive a Fiat 500, and my car insurance is €26 a month. And I only fill it up with gas once a month because I live close to my office, friends, and family.

I stopped buying fashionable items like gadgets and clothes that are “in.” But I must say, I don’t save on my wellbeing. I buy books every month. I eat good food. And I go to a good gym. And I also built a small gym in my office.

You see, I don’t live like Mr. Money Moustache or minimalist folks, I have my own definition of living lean.

That is: Don’t spend your money on things that don’t give you lasting benefits.

For example, healthy food keeps me fit and lean. Books satisfy my thirst for knowledge and thinking. Working out gives me calm. Going on trips and holidays give me inspiration. And so forth.

But you know why I’m not afraid to spend money? Too often, we despise greed—which is also an extreme state of mind.

However, if we don’t spend money at all, we become stingy and fearful—another extreme state of mind. And that’s no good either. Seneca said it best in On The Shortness Of Life:

    “You can make the same point that rich and poor suffer equal distress: for both groups cling to their money and suffer if it is torn away from them.”

To live a rich life, srive for balance, my friend. Never spend more than you earn. But remember that life is too short to eat rice and beans.
2. Always Keep A Buffer

So we all know how to get rich, right? Save your money and then invest it. That’s the idea.

But before you even think about investing, you need a buffer. What will you do when your fridge breaks down? Okay, I admit it: that’s a cliché. Let me give you a better example.

Let’s say you’ve experienced hardship for the past year or so. A family member passes away. You get ill. And you’re having less fun at your job. Things have been tough.

If you have a buffer, you can say, “screw it, let’s go on a holiday.”

Money buys freedom. We must be honest about that. However, you don’t need a million bucks to be free. Personally, I like to have €10K on my savings account that I can always access.

For the first few years of my career, I worked hard and didn’t spend much money, so I could build up my buffer. And ever since I built up my buffer, I never let it dip below that number. I also don’t invest that money. I don’t care about inflation since I make money in different ways.

My buffer is here to keep my mind at peace and helps me to do what I want. To me, that’s the definition of a rich life.
