Every piece of personal or professional growth you achieve in life starts with one thing: Self-knowledge.

Lao Tzu, the ancient Chinese philosopher, who lived in the 6th century BC, put it best:

    “He who knows others is wise; he who knows himself is enlightened.”

Whether you want to make a million bucks, build a strong relationship with your partner, or get in the best shape of your life — you can’t improve yourself without knowing yourself.

Self-knowledge is a skill, not a trait, talent, or divine insight. I used to live my life without one bit of introspection. Naturally, I had no idea who I was. Now, I’m getting better at it with practice. And the impact on my life has been huge.

I believe that knowing yourself is the key skill that predicts happiness and success in life. 

So I’ve made a list of 12 books that have helped me to know myself. I hope they will serve you too.
1. HBR’s 10 Must Reads on Managing Yourself

The book’s description starts with, “The path to your professional success starts with a critical look in the mirror.” I can’t agree more.

This HBR collection also includes one of my all time favorite pieces on self-awareness, Managing Oneself by Peter Drucker. It also includes another article that I’ve found very useful: “How Will You Measure Your Life?” by Clayton M. Christensen.

This collection does not disappoint. Every piece will make you think more about your mission, vision, strengths, weaknesses, and how you can advance your career.
2. Emotional Intelligence by Daniel Goleman

In today’s world, it’s probably not you IQ that’s going to make you successful — it’s your EQ. Daniel Goleman is the key expert when it comes to emotional intelligence.

Most people think emotional intelligence is about managing other people’s emotions.

Well, there’s something that’s more important: Identifying and managing your own emotions. I believe that you can’t be an effective leader without EQ. This book helps you to get better at it.
3. Ego Is The Enemy by Ryan Holiday

This is one of my favorite books of the past year. No other person could have written this book better than Ryan Holiday.

He has an impressive career. And a lot of bragging rights. But if you follow his work (which I’ve been doing for three years), you can tell he is a humble person who lets his work speak for him.

To me, that’s the perfect example of someone who has his ego in check. Because we have to be real, everyone has an ego. The question is: How do you manage it? Ego Is The Enemy helps you to do that.
4. Become What You Are by Alan Watts

A collection of 20 essays by Alan Watts. His work was greatly inspired by Zen. And I think that Zen is a great source of internal knowledge.

I’ve tried reading different things about Zen. Watt’s writing is clear, practical, and beautiful. That makes it easier to read and think about. When you apply all the advice in this book, you’ll learn more about yourself and others.
5. I Like Myself! by Karen Beaumont

I usually stick to books for grown-ups. But I just couldn’t resist mentioning this book here. One of my friends bought this book for his daughter a while back. And he loved the book as much as his daughter did.

I checked it out and it’s actually really fun. I can imagine that kids would love it too. It’s a great way to teach kids self-awareness.

I wish I had this book by Karen Beaumont as a child. So if you have kids, buy this book. And if you don’t have kids, get it for your family or friends who do.
6. The Gifts of Imperfection by Brené Brown

I only recently read Brené Brown’s book. I’d seen some of her videos and interviews and always appreciated her calm approach.
