Self-awareness is currently one of the sexiest words in entrepreneurship, happiness, productivity, or anything that has to do with personal growth.

Almost every entrepreneur or thought leader says that self-awareness is one of the keys to personal success. While that may be true — it’s by no means a new concept.

Greek philosopher Aristotle, who lived between 384–322 BC, once said:

    “Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.”

We get it, self-awareness (or knowing yourself) is important. But I’ve learned that it’s also one of the most difficult things that you can master in life.

Benjamin Franklin put it best:

    “There are three things extremely hard: steel, a diamond, and to know one’s self.”

Unfortunately, there’s no such thing as a universal answer to self-awareness. Everybody is different, and the only person that can teach you self-awareness is you.
Becoming More Self-Aware

We know that self-awareness is important, but how do you develop it? And, what’s the use?

One school of thought goes like this: Just live long enough and do a lot of stuff—eventually you will know yourself.

Alright, but what if that takes 60 years? I’m not impatient and I have no trouble waiting. But that approach is just too passive for me.

And I think you can accelerate the process of developing self-awareness by examining yourself consciously.

Let me tell you how I’ve gone about knowing myself better and how I use it in my daily life.

I started by answering these 20 questions:

    What am I good at?
    What am I so-so at?
    What am I bad at?
    What makes me tired?
    What is the most important thing in my life?
    Who are the most important people in my life?
    How much sleep do I need?
    What stresses me out?
    What relaxes me?
    What’s my definition of success?
    What type of worker am I?
    How do I want others to see me?
    What makes me sad?
    What makes me happy?
    What makes me angry?
    What type of person do I want to be?
    What type of friend do I want to be?
    What do I think about myself?
    What things do I value in life?
    What makes me afraid?

If you want to try this method, I would answer these questions with the first answer that pops up in your mind. As you can see, these are all practical questions.

Please don’t start a discussion about how you should interpret these questions. If you do that, we will be still at it in 8o years from now.

The truth is that everyone interprets these questions in a different way. And that’s exactly the point. It’s called self-awareness for a reason. It’s about you.

For example: What things do I value in life? My answer is time, family, well-being. What was your answer? You see, there are no right or wrong answers.

Also, I’m a practical person and don’t like woo-woo questions like: “Who am I? What’s the meaning of life?” You are what you repeatedly do, and you decide what meaning you give to life.
“Now what? How do I improve my self-awareness”

Well, your initial answers to these questions are not that important. It’s impossible to give yourself the right answers, so don’t worry about getting things right.
